Hello everyone,
and welcome to the reduce function lecture.
So reduce is another built-in function to Python
that you're gonna find is also really useful
in conjunction with lambda expressions.
And you'll notice that the format is really similar
to map , except what it actually does
is quite a bit different.
So, a lot of times students have difficulty
understanding reduce , so go ahead and make sure you read
the Jupyter Notebook before coming to this lecture,
where I'll break it down for you.
So what does the function actually look like?
The function looks like this, it has a reduce statement,
and then just like map , it takes in a function
and a sequence.
But instead of mapping the function
to every single element in that sequence,
it's gonna continually apply that function to the sequence.
So what does that actually look like?
It's gonna end up returning a single value.
So let's go ahead and break down all the steps here.
And I know this is a lot of text,
but we'll go through it slowly.
So if your sequence looks like this,
let's say have a list, where it's s1, s2, s3,
all the way to some sn,
then calling the reduce
works something like this:
So you grab the first two elements of your sequence,
s1 and s2, and then you apply the function.
So it would look like func .
Then you have that result, which is just some single number
or single value, and you have now a list
that looks like this: function, that result of s1 s2, s3,
so on, so on, so on.
And so the next step in the function will be to
take your previous result, whatever the result of
s1 s2 function would be, and then take that and apply it
to function of that answer with s3.
So the list keeps spilling in and reducing the functions
that build into each other.
And it keeps continuing like that until one element is left.
So, that's a little hard to understand in words,
let's go ahead and see an example.
So I have my list, lst equal to 47, 11, 42, 13.
And then I create a lambda expression that
adds numbers together, so it takes in two inputs, x and y,
and then returns a single value, x+y.
And here at reduce, I'm inputting this lambda expression,
that function, and then I'm also passing this list.
And so what is reduce doing here?
Well, it takes the first two elements, just like s1 s2
in that last example we saw, 47 and 11,
and it applies that function to it,
and then you output 58 here, so 47+11 is 58.
So now, it keeps going on throughout the list,
and then the next sequence is gonna be that result
passed to the function along with the third element, 42.
So it's gonna do 42+58, which is 100.
Then it's gonna take that result of these three,
and pass it along to this lambda expression
with the fourth value, 13.
So 100+13 is 113.
And then your output is just 113.
So make sure you really understand what's going on here.
You keep reducing the sequence
until a single final value is obtained.
Let's go ahead and look at another example
by hopping over to the live code.
So we're at our live code, and what we're gonna do is
create a reduce function that finds
the maximum of the sequence.
So let's say I have a list,
and let's just put in
some random numbers in here.
Two, okay.
So I have this list with some random numbers in it.
What I wanna do is find the maximum of the sequence,
using reduce .
So I could just use max of the list,
and that would return the max of the list,
that's another built-in function,
but in this case we actually want to
build that ourselves using reduce .
So how can we do that?
Well, I'm going to create an expression called max_find,
and I'm actually going to make it
as a lambda expression, not a function.
It's gonna take in two arguments, a and b.
And it's gonna return a
if a is greater than b,
else returns b.
So that's what max_find looks like.
Let's go ahead and make sure we really understand
what's going on with that lambda expression by
rewriting it as a normal function
just so we really make sure what's going on here.
So as a normal function, max_find would look like this,
I take in two arguments, a and b,
and I will say if a is greater than b,
return a, else return b.
So that's what's going on here,
and let's go ahead and make sure it works; max_find,
say 12 versus 100, so it returns 100 here.
So the reason I am writing it as a lambda expression
is just to have it in your mind that
lambda expressions are used a lot with map , reduce ,
and filter .
Remember I have my list of these random numbers,
and what max_find is gonna do,
if I reduce it,
is find the maximum of that list.
So max_find, and my list,
and notice it found the maximum.
So what is it actually doing?
It's taking these two numbers first and comparing them.
It's gonna say, "which one's greater, 34 or 23? Well, 34."
Then it's going to compare 34 and 24.
34 still wins, and it's gonna keep doing that
until it finally reaches the max number,
and then it's gonna say, "Okay, 2333 is the max number,
"so return that, compare that to 2, it's still the max,
"compare that to 11, it's still the max,
"well then finally, return 2333."
And that's where we can find the max using reduce .
So, just to reiterate, what reduce is doing
is it's applying this function continuously
throughout your sequence.
And then it returns a single value,
as it keeps reducing the sequence further and further.
So go ahead and make sure you understand fully
what this statement is saying here,
how it's just reducing the function continually--
excuse me, the sequence continually
using whatever function you put into reduce .
So that's it for this lecture,
you can go ahead and check out more examples
by just googling 'Python plus reduce',
and there's more examples in the documentation of Python.
Thanks everyone, and I'll see you at the next lecture.